{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\vieww11740\viewh13600\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 CHANGE LOG\
\
-- Data updated by Tom Patterson, July, 2012, to include the most recent parks: Fort Monroe National Monument, Virginia, and Paterson Great Falls National Historical Park, New Jersey. There are now 397 US National Park units.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 -- Data updated by Tom Patterson, December 18, 2010, to include the most recent park: President William Jefferson Clinton Birthplace Home National Historic Site. \
\
-- Prior interim update over initial version was November 16, 2010 to add a 393rd unit, River Raisin National Battlefield Park, in Michigan. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
More information at: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.federalregister.gov/articles/2010/11/10/2010-28427/river-raisin-national-battlefield-park-mi--account-number-6495#p-3"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 http://www.federalregister.gov/articles/2010/11/10/2010-28427/river-raisin-national-battlefield-park-mi--account-number-6495#p-3}}\
\
ABOUT\
\
-- Hawaiian parks do not contain macrons over vowels.\
\
-- Although Tom Patterson is a National Park Service employee, this data was produced privately and is not an official product nor is it endorsed by the Park Service.\
\
-- Data includes the 394 \ul authorized\ulnone  National Park Service units. The data does not include affiliated areas and unauthorized park units.\
\
-- Park units over 100,000 acres appear as areas, park units under 100,000 acres as points, and linear parks, including rivers, trails, and seashores, as lines. There are a few exceptions to this rule.\
\
-- Park shapes were generalized with the Visvalingam-Whyatt algorithm using the on-line tools at Mapshaper.org\
\
-- The park units are customized to fit 1:10,000,000-scale Natural Earth base data available at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.naturalearthdata.com"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 www.naturalearthdata.com}}\
\
-- Many parks are comprised of scattered, non-contiguous land parcels. Not all of these are shown, especially in urban areas and the northeastern US. Dots generally indicate the center of the largest parcel or the parcel where the visitor center is located.\
\
-- Although National Preserves adjacent to National Parks are generally counted as separate units, they are typically administered jointly with their respective parks. This data reflects this administrative reality. For example, Denali National Park and Preserve appears as a single merged unit. \
\
-- Park boundaries extending over water areas are not shown.\
\
-- Park abbreviations used in the [UnitName] follow those used in the "National Park System Map and Guide."\
\
-- Park names [Name] are shorted versions of the [UnitName] appropriate for general map labeling and were created by Nathaniel Vaughn Kelso. When referring to the park in text or on a more detailed map, use the [UnitName] and not the [Name]. National Parks do not receive a NP trailing type indicator in [Name], while other types of park unit do (NHP, NS, etc).\
\
-- Scale ranks do not imply importance of one park over another but can guide which parks should be shown on more and less detailed maps. Scale ranking by Nathaniel Vaughn Kelso.\
\
DATA SOURCES\
\
-- NPS Data Store (Current Administrative Boundaries of National Park System Units November 24, 2009)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\ql\qnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.nps.gov/gis/data_info"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 www.nps.gov/gis/data_info}}\
\
-- National Park System Map and Guide, January 2010\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\ql\qnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.nps.gov/hfc/carto/nps-map-zoomify/nps-wall-map.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 www.nps.gov/hfc/carto/nps-map-zoomify/nps-wall-map.html}}\
}